As I walked out in the streets of Laredo, as I walked out in Laredo one day, I spied a poor cowboy wrapped up in white linen, wrapped up in white linen as cold as the clay.
I see by your outfit that you are a cowboy, these words he did say as I boldly stepped by.
Come sit now beside me and hear my sad story, I was shot in the breast and I'm going to die.
Oh, beat the drum slowly and play the five lowly play.
The dead march as they carry me on.
Oh, carry me over the long green valley.
I'm only a cowboy.
I know I'm a cowboy.
In the saddle I used to go dashing, t'was once in the saddle I used to be gay.
I first took to drinking and then to court playing, got shot in the breast and I'm dying today.
Go gather around you a crowd of young cowboys and tell them the story of this my sad face.
Tell one and the other before they go further to stop their wild wolfing before it's too late.
Oh, please go and fetch me a cup of cold water to bathe my part nip, the poor fellow said.
But ere we had brought it, his spirit had left him, it gone to his make-up, the poor boy was dead.
Oh, beat the drum slowly and play, the pipe lowly play, the dead march as they carry
I'm only a cowboy I know